[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
nagamonchetti and
charlie state the new u.s president's
first hours in office joe biden
signs a series of orders reversing some
of donald trump's key policies
i've never been more optimistic about
america than i am this very day
there isn't anything we can't do if we
do it together
[Music]
a televised concert with a string of
celebrities and fireworks rounds off
inauguration day
severe flood warnings after heavy rain
means thousands are told to leave their
homes in manchester
and north wales we've been here in
mountain avenue
33 years and we've never had it quite as
bad as this
the good news is the worst of the rain
is over but river levels could continue
to rise in parts of the country for a
few days yet and this morning
we've also got some heavy snow to
contend with i'll have all the details
later
another 60 covert 19 vaccination centers
open their doors
in england but there's concern over
variations in the availability of the
jab
good morning the women who say they're
being punished financially for having a
baby that's what the high court will
examine today
the tens of thousands of self-employed
parents whose covered support
took a hit good morning a moment of
magic
from paul pogba sends manchester united
back to the top of the premier league
after rival city
had earlier in the evening overtaken
them
[Music]
good morning it's thursday the 21st of
january our top story is that america's
new president
joe biden has started his time in office
by reversing key
trump-era policies just hours after
being sworn in
as the 46th president of the united
states
there is no time to waste when it comes
to tackling the crisis
we face he tweeted as he headed to the
white house following his
inauguration now the ceremony which
included musical performances by lady
gaga and jennifer lopez was
unlike any other due to coronavirus
restrictions
normia iqbal has more from washington
there was no traditional ball for
president biden and vice president
harris
but they got bruce springsteen and tom
hanks
now it is my honor to introduce the
president of the united states
joseph r biden jr
[Music]
this is a great nation we're good people
and to overcome the challenges in front
of us requires the most
elusive of all things in a democracy
unity
hours earlier the new leaders of america
were sworn in on capitol hill
so help me god congratulations mr
president
[Applause]
soon president biden headed into his new
office and started signing away donald
trump's legacy with a pen
he greenlighted 15 executive orders some
of them
included calling for a nationwide face
mass mandate
and rejoining both the paris climate
agreement and the world health
organization
[Music]
this administration says it wants to set
a unifying and
optimistic tone for america we
are bold fearless and ambitious
we are undaunted in our belief
that we shall overcome that we will
rise up but this new start comes just a
few weeks
after donald trump's loyal supporters
stormed the capital
the stakes for what president biden does
in the next few years
couldn't be higher normal bbc news
oh we can speak to nomian now from
washington very good morning to
nomia so we had the ceremonies of course
and then we had the music and the
entertainment and pretty much straight
down to business
yes morning charlie uh joe biden isn't
wasting any time straight after his
inauguration he said that he's eager to
work and he's been cracking on
trying to dismantle donald trump's
legacy as quickly as possible
much like what donald trump did to
barack obama in 2016.
but it'd be interesting to see how that
goes down with a lot of americans
because
a lot of those policies that donald
trump had were very popular with people
his hard-line position on immigration
building that border wall standing up to
big big establishments
they liked that about him and mr biden
has talked a lot about unity and trying
to bring people together on the
political divide so
i'm not quite sure i think it'll be
interesting to see how reversing some
major policies
will they win him any people who do not
back his presidency um today is his
first full day in office
and he will be attending a virtual
prayer service and then he will be
tackling his number one priority which
is the coronavirus pandemic
he's never minced his words on how he
thinks that the trump administration
failed to show any leadership on it more
than 400 000 americans have died there's
been a huge
economic impact which is also another
priority of his to tackle
the other thing that's worth pointing
out is that there's a real sigh of
relief in the city after the
inauguration went off without too many
problems
obviously we've been reporting all week
about the huge security operation it's
still in place
because they want the administration to
bed in but americans are very proud of
this traditional
transfer of power and yesterday's
inauguration might have been a bit
different than normal
but it did go off without a glitch noria
thank you very much
thousands of homes across england and
wales were evacuated overnight after
widespread flooding
caused by storm kristoff rivers reached
record high levels in parts of greater
manchester and north wales
there are now more than 200 flood
warnings in place five of them
severe andy moore has this report
storm kristoff started with strong winds
and heavy rain but now
temperatures are falling many places are
dealing with a difficult combination
of rising water levels and falling snow
at dead spring in manchester the river
mercy rose to record levels
we've been told to evacuate
however during corona where you evacuate
to you don't want to impose yourself on
other people so
we are trying to hold on as long as we
can and hopefully it will pass
it's risen slightly higher than than its
previous hike
so but clearly at the moment it's it's
holding good it's holding firm
we've been here in mountain avenue 33
years and we've never had it quite as
bad as this
and it's a bit more alarming even when
the record the the river got to a record
level
this was a picturesque but fortunately
empty cottage at chorley in lancashire
before
and after the floods some places are
expected to get
two months of rain in just a few days
just a few miles from didsbury severe
flood warnings were in place overnight
for the river bowling at hitler and just
across the welsh border
at bangaron d homes were evacuated
across england and wales several severe
flood warnings have been in place
overnight
in north wales police helped some people
leave their homes in written
while warning others not to come to the
area for sightseeing of the floods
near mahuntleth yesterday this river
burst its banks
sending half a meter of water through
some nearby homes
the river came in throughout the garden
all of the garden rather than just the
old little hole through the side of the
the bank and it didn't catch us by
surprise but the sheer
volume of it and the persistence of it
has caught us out
we're often told not to drive through
flood water
but this driver didn't get the memo
[Music]
their experience showed that most cars
not even four by fours
are built to negotiate deep flood waters
andy moore abc news
yikes well in didsbury in south
manchester for people from more than 2
000 properties were asked to evacuate
after the river mersey reached record
levels our reporter adam mclean is there
for us this morning adam good morning
to you um it's so confusing is it it's
just something we're so not used to
being asked to evacuate from our homes
that's right good morning the river
mersey here in didsbury is at its
highest
ever recorded level it peaked in the
last few
hours and overnight that forced
emergency services here
to advise those in as many as 2 000
homes to leave
and to take shelter elsewhere police
officers and firefighters were
knocking on doors many people being
woken in the early hours
and strongly advised to evacuate now a
short distance from where we are is the
didsbury
uh flood base and yesterday as river
levels rose the floodgates there were
opened allowing this river
to spill over into an empty space in the
hope that that would take
the pressure off the strained river
banks but even with those
measures in place this river is
perilously close to
overflowing now those who've been
advised to evacuate here have been
told that potential flooding poses a
danger to life
but of course people have been staying
at home now for quite some time because
of
a virus that poses a danger to life so
it's an incredibly
challenging situation here some moved
valuables and themselves upstairs
and decided to take the chances others
are sheltering at nearby community
centres
and a local mosque and while clinically
vulnerable people
and those who are currently
self-isolating well they've been
provided
with hotel accommodation in which to
self-isolate now water levels have
dropped
uh in the last few hours which will be a
relief and it's hoped that the banks
here will hold
indeed adam thanks very much and of
course anyone who is out there this
morning do stay safe
levels of chronovirus in the community
may have risen
over the first 10 days of the third
lockdown that's according to a new study
past few days have seen a slowdown in
the number of lab
confirmed cases those are the ones
reported daily by the government
however imperial college london
researchers say
their data is more up to date ministers
say the study does not yet reflect the
impact of the national lockdown
in england more than 60 new covid 19
vaccination centers will open today in
england as the rollout of the program
continues
in some regions the over 70s are now
receiving the jab while in
others those in the 80s are still
waiting here's our health correspondent
dominic hughes in care homes hospitals
gp surgeries and now pharmacies the
number of places where the covid19
vaccine can be delivered
are growing the latest new venues coming
online today include a mosque in
birmingham and a cinema in aylesbury
but problems with the supply of the
vaccine remain a challenge
leading to some frustration for those
trying to deliver it
it is frustrating you know we've spent a
lot of time and effort setting up
centers there's
15 across sheffield gp practice is
working in partnership
to make sure it's ready to go now we can
deliver
you know 7 800 vaccines a day but the
supply to us is really limited
we may face a whole week of not being
able to give any vaccines next week
there are some tough targets to hit for
the roll out of the vaccine
by mid february care home residents the
over 70s
frontline health and care staff and the
extremely clinically vulnerable should
have had their first jab
by the end of april vaccines should have
reached all those over 50
and young people with underlying health
conditions and by the autumn
the rest of the adult population
manufacturing the vaccine is a complex
process
subject to multiple safety and quality
control checks
ministers describe the supply of the
vaccine as lumpy and acknowledge this is
the limiting factor on the speed of the
rollout
people are being reassured they won't
miss out and the vaccine remains our
best way out of this crisis
dominic hughes bbc news
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news